# How to implement a C# concept exercise

This document describes how to implement a concept exercise for the C# track. As this document is generic, the following placeholders are used:

- `<SLUG>`: the name of the exercise in kebab-case (e.g. `anonymous-methods`).
- `<NAME>`: the name of the exercise in PascalCase (e.g. `AnonymousMethods`).

Before implementing the exercise, please make sure you have a good understanding of what the exercise should be teaching (and what not). This information can be found in the exercise's GitHub issue.

To implement a concept exercise, the following files must be created:

<pre>
languages
└── csharp
    └── exercises
        └── concept
            └── &lt;SLUG&gt;
                ├── .docs
                |   ├── instructions.md
                |   ├── introduction.md
                |   ├── hints.md
                |   └── after.md (optional)
                ├── .meta
                |   ├── config.json
                |   └── Example.cs
                ├── &lt;NAME&gt;.cs
                ├── &lt;NAME&gt;.csproj
                └── &lt;NAME&gt;Test.cs
</pre>

## Step 1: adding track-specific files

These files are specific to the C# track:

- `<NAME>.cs`. the stub implementation file, which is the starting point for students to work on the exercise.
- `<NAME>.csproj`: the C# project file.
- `<NAME>Test.cs`: the test suite.
- `.meta/Example.cs`: an example implementation that passes all the tests.

## Step 2: adding documentation files

- `.docs/introduction.md`: an introduction to the concept. It should be explicit about what the exercise teaches and maybe provide a brief introduction to the concepts, but not give away so much that the user doesn't have to do any work to solve the exercise.
- `.docs/instructions.md`: instructions for the exercise. It should explicitly explain what the user needs to do (define a method with the signature `X(...)` that takes an A and returns a Z), and provide at least one example usage of that function. If there are multiple tasks within the exercise, it should provide an example of each.
- `.docs/hints.md`: if the user gets stuck, we will allow them to click a button requesting a hint, which shows this file. We will softly discourage them using it. The file should contain both general and task-specific "hints". These hints should be enough to unblock almost any
- `.docs/after.md` (optional): once the user completes the exercise they will be shown this file, which gives them any bonus information or further reading about the concept taught.

These files are also all described in the [concept exercises document][docs-general-concept-exercises].

## Step 3: adding other files

- `.meta/config.json`: metadata for the exercise. This includes defining the test file and the solution files, as well as a list of all the tests and the method they are calling.

## Step 4: updating files

- `languages/csharp/config.json`: a new entry should be added for the exercise:

```json
{
  ...
  "exercises": {
    "concept": [
      ...
      {
        "slug": "<SLUG>",
        "uuid": "<UUID>",
        "concepts": ["<CONCEPT-1>"],
        "prerequisites": ["<PREREQUISITE-1>", "<PREREQUISITE-2>"]
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Step 5: add analyzer (optional)

Some exercises could benefit from having an exercise-specific [analyzer][csharp-analyzer]. If so, please check the [analyzer document][csharp-analyzer] for details on how to do this.

## Step 6: custom representation (optional)

Some exercises could benefit from having an custom representation as generated by the [C# representer][csharp-representer]. If so, please check the [representer document][csharp-representer] for details on how to do this.

## Inspiration

When implementing an exericse, it can be very useful to look at already implemented C# exercises like the [strings][concept-exercise-strings], [dates][concept-exercise-dates] or [floating-point numbers][concept-exercise-floating-point-numbers] exercises. You can also check the exercise's [general concepts documents][reference] to see if other languages that have already an exercise for that concept.

## Help

If you have any questions regarding implementing this exercise, please post them as comments in the exercise's GitHub issue.

[docs-analyzer]: ./analyzer.md
[docs-representer]: ./representer.md
[docs-reference]: ./reference.md
[docs-general-concept-exercises]: ../../../docs/concept-exercises.md
[concept-exercise-strings]: ../exercises/concept/strings
[concept-exercise-dates]: ../exercises/concept/dates
[concept-exercise-floating-point-numbers]: ../exercises/concept/numbers-floating-point
[reference]: ../../../reference
