# How to implement a JavaScript Concept Exercise

This document describes how to implement a Concept Exercise for the JavaScript track. As this document is generic, the following placeholders are used:

- `<slug>`: the name of the exercise in snake_case (e.g. `anonymous-methods`).
- `<concepts>`: the Concepts the exercise is about (e.g. `loops`),
- `<concept-1>`: a single Concept slug,
- `<prerequisite-n>`: a single Concept slug,
- `<uuid>`: a _new_ v4 UUID (random!)
- `<first-and-last-name>`: your first and last name (e.g. `Derk-Jan Karrenbeld`)
- `<git-email>`: the email address you use for git (e.g. `derk-jan+github@karrenbeld.info`)

Before implementing the exercise, please make sure you have a good understanding of what the exercise should be teaching (and what not). This information can be found in the exercise's GitHub issue. Having done this, please read the [JavaScript Concept exercises introduction][concept-exercises]. If you have come up with something completely new, create a new issue _first_ so we can discuss the Concept Exercise.

To implement a Concept Exercise, the following files must be created:

<pre>
languages
└── csharp
    └── exercises
        └── concept
            └── &lt;slug&gt;
                ├── .docs
                |   ├── instructions.md
                |   ├── introduction.md
                |   ├── hints.md
                |   └── after.md (optional)
                ├── .eslintrc
                ├── .gitignore
                ├── babel.config.js
                ├── example.js
                ├── &lt;slug&gt;.js
                ├── &lt;slug&gt;.spec.js
                ├── package.json
                └── yarn.lock
</pre>

## Step 1: add .docs/introduction.md

This file contains an introduction to the Concept. It should be explicit about what the exercise teaches and maybe provide a brief introduction to the concepts, but not give away so much that the user doesn't have to do any work to solve the exercise.

## Step 2: add .docs/instructions.md

This file contains instructions for the exercise. It should explicitly explain what the user needs to do (define a method with the signature `X(...)` that takes an A and returns a Z), and provide at least one example usage of that function. If there are multiple tasks within the exercise, it should provide an example of each.

## Step 3: add .docs/hints.md

If the user gets stuck, we will allow them to click a button requesting a hint, which shows this file. We will softly discourage them using it. The file should contain both general and task-specific "hints". These hints should be enough to unblock almost any

## Step 4: add .docs/after.md (optional):

Once the user completes the exercise they will be shown this file, which gives them any bonus information or further reading about the Concept taught.

## Step 5: add .meta/config.json

This file contains metadata for the exercise. The metadata includes paths to the test file and the solution files, as well as a list of all the tests and the method they are calling.

## Step 6: update languages/javascript/config.json

An entry should be added to the track's `config.json` file for the new Concept Exercise:

```json
{
  ...
  "exercises": {
    "concept": [
      ...
      {
        "slug": "<slug>",
        "uuid": "<uuid>",
        "concepts": ["<concept-1>"],
        "prerequisites": ["<prerequisite-1>", "<prerequisite-2>"]
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Step 7: adding track-specific files

The configuration files may be copied from another exercise. We aim to keep these in sync:

- `.eslintrc`
- `.gitignore`
- `babel.config.js`
- `package.json`
- `yarn.lock`

The `package.json` file must be edited:

```diff
-  "name": "@exercism/javascript-numbers",
+  "name": "@exercism/javascript-<slug>",
-  "description": "Exercism Concept Exercise on <concepts>",
-  "author": "Derk-Jan Karrenbeld <derk-jan+github@karrenbeld.info>",
+  "author": "<first-and-last-name> <<git-email>>"
   "version": "1.0.0",
   "license": "MIT",
   "private": true,
   "repository": {
     "type": "git",
     "url": "https://github.com/exercism/language-concepts.git",
-    "directory": "languages/javascript/exercises/concept/numbers"
+    "directory": "languages/javascript/exercises/concept/<slug>"
   },
```

Now create the following three files:

- `<slug>.cs`. the stub implementation file, which is the starting point for students to work on the exercise.
- `<slug>.spec.js`: the test suite.
- `example.js`: an example implementation that passes all the tests.

## Step 8: add analyzer (optional)

Some exercises could benefit from having an exercise-specific [analyzer][analyzer]. If so, specify what analysis rules should be applied to this exercise and why.

## Step 9: custom representation (optional)

Some exercises could benefit from having an custom representation as generated by the [JavaScript representer][representer]. If so, specify what changes to the representation should be applied and why.

## Inspiration

When implementing an exercise, it can be very useful to look at the exercises the track has already implemented. You can also check the exercise's [general concepts documents][reference] to see if other languages that have already an exercise for that Concept.

## Inspiration

When implementing an exercise, it can be very useful to look at already implemented JavaScript exercises like the [strings][concept-exercise-strings], [numbers][concept-exercise-numbers] or [promises][concept-exercise-promises] exercises. You can also check the exercise's [general concepts documents][reference] to see if other languages have already implemented an exercise for that Concept.

## Help

If you have any questions regarding implementing the exercise, please post them as comments in the exercise's GitHub issue.

[analyzer]: https://github.com/exercism/javascript-analyzer
[representer]: https://github.com/exercism/javascript-representer
[concept-exercises]: ../exercises/concept/README.md
[how-to-implement-a-concept-exercise]: ../../../docs/maintainers/generic-how-to-implement-a-concept-exercise.md
[concept-exercise-strings]: ../exercises/concept/strings
[concept-exercise-numbers]: ../exercises/concept/numbers
[concept-exercise-promises]: ../exercises/concept/promises
[reference]: ../../../reference/README.md
