Bash is the language that you will learn to love!

Many of your everyday computer tasks can be done using the concise scripts
it can produce.  You will soon learn that while most things can be done
through a Graphical User Interface, it can actually be vastly faster to use
this powerful language!  The command interpreter typically runs in a text
window, where users may input commands (operations may also come from some
files, also known as Bash scripts).

More formally, Bash (an acronym for **B**ourne-**a**gain **sh**ell, a pun
around the Bourne shell and the term "born-again") is a Unix command
interpreter.  Offering a number of improvements over several other shells
(Bash has some useful functionality in regards to command history, job
control and command line editing).

A really good way to think about Bash is the following:

> Although most users think of the shell as an interactive command
> interpreter, it is really a programming language in which each statement
> runs a command.  Because it must satisfy both the interactive and
> programming aspects of command execution, it is a strange language, shaped
> as much by history as by design.  —- Brian Kernighan & Rob Pike

_cite: Kernighan, Brian W.; Pike, Rob (1984). The UNIX Programming Environment. Englewood Cliffs: Prentice-Hall. ISBN 0-13-937699-2._

Though it was first released several decades ago after being written by
Brian Fox of the Free Software Foundation, Bash is still used across the
world every day!  From automation to stitching a project together, the
language is still as versatile as it ever was.  Another benefit of the
language's age is the rich documentation you'll find surrounding it.  If
you're ever stuck and don't know exactly how to implement an exercise, a
great place to start is the built-in help, available through the use of
`info bash` or `man bash`. 

This track is to help you gain some experience in this wonderful scripting language.

**Happy Bash'ing**

