# How to implement an Elm concept exercise

This document describes the steps required to implement a concept exercise for the Elm track. As this document is generic, the following placeholders are used:

- `<SLUG>`: the name of the exercise in kebab-case (e.g. `anonymous-methods`).
- `<NAME>`: the name of the exercise in PascalCase (e.g. `AnonymousMethods`).

Before implementing the exercise, please make sure you have a good understanding of what the exercise should be teaching (and what not). This information can be found in the exercise's GitHub issue.

Any concept exercise in any v3 track requires the following files to be created:

<pre>
languages
└── elm
    └── exercises
        └── concept
            └── &lt;SLUG&gt;
                ├── .docs
                |   ├── instructions.md
                |   ├── introduction.md
                |   ├── hints.md
                |   └── after.md (optional)
                └── .meta
                |   └── config.json
                |   └── design.md
                |   └── Example.elm
                ├── elm.json
                ├── src
                |   └── &lt;NAME&gt;.elm
                └── tests
                |   └── &lt;NAME&gt;.elm
</pre>

## Step 1: add .docs/introduction.md

This file contains an introduction to the concept. It should be explicit about what the exercise teaches and maybe provide a brief introduction to the concepts, but not give away so much that the user doesn't have to do any work to solve the exercise.

## Step 2: add .docs/instructions.md

This file contains instructions for the exercise. It should explicitly explain what the user needs to do (define a method with the signature `X(...)` that takes an A and returns a Z), and provide at least one example usage of that function. If there are multiple tasks within the exercise, it should provide an example of each.

## Step 3: add .docs/hints.md

If the user gets stuck, we will allow them to click a button requesting a hint, which shows this file. We will softly discourage them using it. The file should contain both general and task-specific "hints". These hints should be enough to unblock almost any student.

## Step 4: add .docs/after.md (optional)

Once the user completes the exercise they will be shown this file, which recaps the learning goals of the exercise, and secondarily gives them any bonus information or further reading about the concept taught.

## Step 5: update languages/&lt;TRACK&gt;/config.json

An entry should be added to the track's `config.json` file for the new concept exercise:

```json
{
  ...
  "exercises": {
    "concept": [
      ...
      {
        "slug": "<SLUG>",
        "uuid": "<UUID>",
        "concepts": ["<CONCEPT-1>"],
        "prerequisites": ["<PREREQUISITE-1>", "<PREREQUISITE-2>"]
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Step 6: adding track-specific files

Having added the files that are not specific to the track, now is the time to create the track-specific files. These file will include:

- An elm.json file.
- A stub implementation file (src/&lt;NAME&gt;.elm).
- A file containing the test suite (tests/&lt;NAME&gt;.elm).
- An example implementation file that passes all the tests (.meta/Example.elm).

What these files look like depends on your track. Note that some tracks might require more files in addition to the three files just mentioned.

## Step 7: update the general concept document

Add the exercise to the [concept's shared document's][reference] `## Implementations` section ([example](https://github.com/exercism/v3/blob/master/reference/types/string.md#implementations)).

## Step 8: add analyzer (optional)

Some exercises could benefit from having an exercise-specific analyzer. If so, please check the track's analyzer document for details on how to do this.

Skip this step if your track does not have an analyzer.

## Step 9: custom representation (optional)

Some exercises could benefit from having a custom representation as generated by the track's representer. If so, please check the track's representer document for details on how to do this.

Skip this step if your track does not have a representer.

## Step 10: add .meta/design.md:

This file contains information on the exercise's design, which includes things like its goal, its teaching goals, what not to teach, and more ([example][meta-design]). This information can be extracted from the exercise's corresponding GitHub issue.

## Step 11: add .meta/config.json:

This file contains meta information on the exercise, which currently only includes the exercise's contributors ([example][meta-config-json]).

## Inspiration

When implementing an exercise, it can be very useful to look at the exercises the track has already implemented. You can also check the exercise's [general concepts documents][reference] to see if other languages that have already an exercise for that concept.

## Help

If you have any questions regarding implementing this exercise, please post them as comments in the exercise's GitHub issue.

### TODO: link to elm document, once it is done and available to reference.
[reference]: ../../csharp/reference/README.md
### TODO: link to an elm concept, after the first one is done and available to reference.
[meta-design]: ../../csharp/exercises/concept/enums-advanced/.meta/design.md
### TODO: link to an elm concept, after the first one is done and available to reference.
[meta-config-json]: ../../csharp/exercises/concept/enums-advanced/.meta/config.json
