The ability for something to be defined in terms of itself is called recursion. In F#, recursion is most commonly found in [recursive functions][recursive-functions], which are functions that call themselves. A recursive function is defined like a regular function, but with the `rec` modifier. Without this modifier, a function will _not_ be able to call itself. Recursion thus has to be explicitly opted into.

One possible issue with recursive functions is that each (recursive) function call results in allocations on the stack, causing it to grow. As the stack has a limited amount of memory, functions that use many recursive calls may cause a `StackOverflowException` to be thrown. How many recursive calls will trigger this behavior depends on multiple factors, like the available memory on the stack and how much data each function call takes up on the stack.

The best way to prevent recursive functions from overflowing the stack is to write them as _tail-recursive_ functions. When a function is [tail-recursive][tail-recursion], the compiler can optimize its output such that there are no additional allocations on the stack for each recursive function call. The one rule for tail-recursive functions is that the result of a recursive function call should be directly returned from the function, there must not be any additional code that processes the result of the recursive call. The most common way to do this is by creating a helper function that takes an additional accumulator argument, which is updated for each recursive call and returned when the recursion finishes. [This page][tail-recursion-in-depth] goes into great detail on how the compiler processed tail-recursive functions.

F# supports [recursive types through discriminated union types][recursive-types]. A recursive discriminated union type has one or more of its cases refer to the discriminated union type itself in their data.

F# lists are usually processed recursively using pattern matching and the [list pattern][list-pattern]. The basic pattern to process a list recursively is to match it with either an empty list or a non-empty list. In the empty list case, the recursion should end and the end result value is returned. If the list is not empty, one usually matches the first (head) element and the remainder of the list. The head element is then processed and the remainder is processed recursively, until the remainder is empty and the empty list pattern matches.

[recursive-functions]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/fsharp/language-reference/functions/recursive-functions-the-rec-keyword
[recursive-types]: https://fsharpforfunandprofit.com/posts/recursive-types-and-folds/#a-basic-recursive-type
[list-pattern]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/fsharp/language-reference/pattern-matching#list-pattern
[tail-recursion]: https://cyanbyfuchsia.wordpress.com/2014/02/12/recursion-and-tail-recursion-in-f/
[tail-recursion-in-depth]: https://devblogs.microsoft.com/fsharpteam/tail-calls-in-f/
