# How to implement a Rust concept exercise

This issue describes how to implement a concept exercise for the Rust track. As this document is generic, the following placeholders are used:

- `<SLUG>`: the name of the exercise in kebab-case (e.g. `anonymous-methods`).
- `<NAME>`: the name of the exercise in snake_case (e.g. `anonymous_methods`).

Before implementing the exercise, please make sure you have a good understanding of what the exercise should be teaching (and what not). This information can be found in the exercise's GitHub issue. Having done this, please read the [Rust concept exercises introduction][concept-exercises].

To implement a Rust concept exercise, the following files must be created:

```
languages
└── rust
    └── exercises
        └── concept
            └── <SLUG>
                ├── .docs
                |   ├── instructions.md
                |   ├── introduction.md
                |   ├── hints.md
                |   └── after.md (optional)
                ├── .meta
                |   |── design.md
                |   |── config.json
                |   └── example.rs
                ├── src
                |   └── lib.rs
                ├── Cargo.toml
                └── tests
                    └── <NAME>.rs
```

## Step 1: adding track-specific files

These files are specific to the Rust track:

- `/src/lib.rs`: the Rust library file, which is the starting point for students to work on the exercise.
- `Cargo.toml`: the Cargo file. Be aware the online editor does not support editing the `Cargo.toml`.
```toml
[package]
name = "<SLUG>"
version = "0.1.0"
edition = "2018"
```
- `/tests/<NAME>.rs`: the test suite.
- `.meta/example.rs`: an example implementation that passes all the tests.

## Step 2: adding common files

How to create the files common to all tracks is described in the [how to implement a concept exercise document][how-to-implement-a-concept-exercise].

## Step 3: add analyzer (optional)

Some exercises could benefit from having an exercise-specific [analyzer][analyzer]. If so, specify what analysis rules should be applied to this exercise and why.

## Step 4: custom representation (optional)

Some exercises could benefit from having an custom representation as generated by the [Rust representer][representer]. If so, specify what changes to the representation should be applied and why.

## Inspiration

When implementing an exercise, it can be very useful to look at already-implemented Rust exercises like the [numbers][concept-exercise-numbers] or [enums][concept-exercise-enums] exercises. You can also check the exercise's [general concepts documents][reference] to see if other languages have already implemented an exercise for that concept.

## Help

If you have any questions regarding implementing the exercise, please post them as comments in the exercise's GitHub issue.

[analyzer]: https://github.com/exercism/rust-analyzer
[representer]: https://github.com/exercism/v3/issues
[concept-exercises]: ../exercises/concept/README.md
[how-to-implement-a-concept-exercise]: ../../../docs/maintainers/generic-how-to-implement-a-concept-exercise.md
[concept-exercise-numbers]: ../exercises/concept/numbers
[concept-exercise-enums]: ../exercises/concept/enums
[reference]: ../../../reference